Adopted at group conscience meeting December 6th, 2017
Plan of Operation Unity Group AA Kansas City, MO

The plan represents the shared experience of AA members and groups throughout the area. It also reflects guidance given through the Twelve Traditions and the General Service Conference. In keeping with our Tradition of autonomy, except in matters affecting other groups or AA as a whole, most decisions are made by the group conscious of the members involved.

The purpose of this Plan of Operation is to assist in reaching an informed group conscience. 

Article I
The Plan of Operation of the group shall be by Steering Committee, under which active meetings shall be represented by duly elected members. Both Steering Committee members and members calling Unity Group of AA as their home group shall have voting rights at the Business meetings.

Article II
The Steering Committee is to consist of the following - Chairperson, Meeting Leader Liaison, Secretary, Treasurer, Literature, Hospitals and Institutions Representative, General Service Representative (GSR), Alternate GSR, Central Office Delegate, Grapevine & Accessibility. Interested active members may self nominate or suggest other active members of the group for steering committee nominations. Beginning in December 2018 and in subsequent years, elections shall be held in December. Duties of the committee members begin in January of the year following election. See Article VIII for descriptions of committee duties and suggested sobriety requirements. For positions starting in January of even numbered years, elections will be held for the positions of Treasurer, Secretary, Literature Representative, Grapevine/Accessibility Representative. For positions starting in January of odd numbered years, elections will be held for Chairperson, GSR, Central Office Delegate and Hospitals and Institutions Representative. The last election scheduled under the previous Plan of Operations will be held in January 2018.

Article III
Terms of office on the Steering Committee will be for a period of two years. A Steering Committee member who loses his/her sobriety will be immediately replaced. In the event, of such a circumstance, the Chairperson will call a Steering Committee meeting at which time a replacement will be elected to fulfill the remainder of the term.

Article IV
The Chairperson will conduct meetings of the committee in accordance with this plan of operation and will have no vote except in case of a tie. Chairperson acts as liaison with the landlord. No votes can be taken by the Steering Committee without a simple majority of the Steering Committee present. (For the purposes of this PofO a simple majority will mean 1⁄2 of the membership of the full Steering Committee plus one.)

Article V
The Steering Committee shall serve as a clearinghouse for all meetings and as an exploratory body to discuss and to outline general group policies and activities. It will entertain and discuss all suggestions bearing upon the operation of Unity Group AA. Kansas City, Mo.

Article VI
The Steering Committee shall consider matters submitted in writing by a member of the group or by a meeting of the group. Such matters will be referred to the Steering Committee for consideration and shall be voted on at the next regular meeting at which it is presented. The Steering Committee shall consider and determine all routine matters without referral to the membership.

Article VII
A.The Chairperson shall be chosen from the group at large. The qualifications shall be continuous sobriety of at least five years and active membership in Unity Group of AA. The duties of the Chairperson are to call regular Business Meetings and special meetings as he/she deems necessary. The Chairperson presides over the business meeting and ensures the meetings progress in an orderly fashion. The Chairperson will be a signer on all bank accounts. The Chairperson will also monitor all financial accounts and records. The Chairperson will have passwords to all websites and accounts and will also have a check card. The Chairperson will also maintain records online.

B.The Group Treasurer shall be chosen from the group at large in the same manner as the Chairperson and with the requirement of at least three years of continuous sobriety. The Treasurer will be a signer on all bank accounts. The Group Treasurer shall maintain financial records of the group and pay all bills as they become due and payable. If the Group Treasurer loses his/her sobriety or commits an act of dishonesty impacting the Unity Group of AA’s treasury, the Chairperson will receive the group’s passwords, check cards, and records from the Group Treasurer and will call a Steering Committee meeting to choose a replacement to complete the remainder of the Treasurer’s term. In the interim, if bills become due, the Group Secretary or Chairperson will issue payments on the bank account to pay them.

C.The Group Secretary shall be chosen from the group at large in the same manner as the Chairperson and with the requirement of at least two years of continuous sobriety. The Group Secretary shall handle group correspondence and maintain all group records as may be necessary for proper operation of the group, attend Steering Committee meetings and make reports. The Group Secretary shall post minutes of the business meetings on the group bulletin board in a timely manner. The Group Secretary will be a signer on all bank accounts.

D.The General Service Representative (GSR) and Alternate GSR shall link his or her group with AA as a whole. The GSR represents the voice of the group conscience, reporting the group’s thoughts to the district committee member and to the delegate, who passes them onto the Conference. This communication is a two-way street, making the GSR responsible for bringing back to the group Conference Actions that affect AA unity, health, and growth. See the AA Service Manual for the latest information about the GSR position. Attendance at District and Area meetings by either the GSR or Alt-GSR is a requirement of this position.

E.The Meeting Leader Liaison shall ensure that the scheduled meetings held at Unity have leaders and that the meeting leaders are utilizing the recommended formats and literature for their meeting. The Meeting Leader Liaison will function as the primary contact person and guide for the meeting leaders. Each Meeting Leader will agree to serve as Meeting Leader for a period of three months. A Meeting Leader will also have obtained three months of continuous sobriety.

F.The Literature Chairperson shall make certain that AA Conference-approved books and pamphlets, ordered from the General Service Office or purchased from the local intergroup (Central Office), are on hand for meetings and properly displayed. Considers suggestions regarding proposed additions to and changes in Conference-approved literature and audiovisual material. Encourages AA members to read and purchase AA Conference-approved literature.

G.Hospitals and Institutions Meeting Representative ensures that the H&I meetings have meeting leaders and that all issues surrounding details of coordination of meetings are covered. AAs work together, insofar as possible, by using suggestions from those who have already had experience carrying the message into treatment facilities.

H.The Central Office Delegate participates in Central Office business meetings to share the group’s experience in carrying the message. The Central Office Delegate also keeps the group well informed about what Central Office is doing. The Central Office Delegate will arrange for a Group Inventory to be conducted every three years, beginning in April, 2018.

I.The Grapevine and Accessibility Representative explores, develops and offers resources to make the AA message and participation in our program available to everyone who reaches out for it. The goal is to make AA accessible as possible to all.For the purpose of those Guidelines, we define AAs with accessibility as persons who are blind or visually impaired; deaf or hard of hearing; chronically ill or homebound, and those who are cognitively disabled. The Accessibility Representative coordinates with Central Office to make AA material available.The Grapevine Representative makes subscription blanks for the publication readily available to the group; maintains the group’s Grapevine subscription and library, and encourages the use of the Grapevine in meetings.

Attendance at all required meetings is necessary to ensure the Steering Committee member is providing adequate information to the Committee and to the Group as a whole. Because attendance is so important, should a Steering Committee member miss two consecutive meetings without obtaining a substitute to attend the meeting and make the appropriate report, that Steering Committee member will be replaced. The Secretary will draft an announcement to be made at all Unity meetings and an election will be held to fill the position at the next regularly scheduled Steering Committee meeting as is practical. Participation by all members is encouraged in order to assure infusion of new and Trusted Servants, energy & ideas; and to help make such service a joyful experience rather than a burdensome responsibility.

Article IX
All matters requiring a vote of the general membership shall be decided by a simple majority vote obtained in the following manner:
At least four weeks prior to the date for such a vote, the Steering Committee shall set the date. The Group Secretary will post a notice of the date for the vote on the bulletin board in the Unity meeting room. The Group Secretary will also include in the notice all the propositions to be voted on and, if for any of the above-mentioned offices, the names of the eligible candidates. At each meeting prior to the vote, the meeting leader shall announce the date of the vote and refer the members to the posted notice for details.
The vote shall be by secret ballot and shall be tabulated by the Chairperson and Secretary. In the event of a tie, the election shall be settled by a coin toss.

Article X
This plan of operations may be amended by a majority vote of the membership of Unity Group of AA or Kansas City, MO in accordance with the provisions of article IX. Prior to any amendment being voted on, the amendment shall be presented to a Group Conscious meeting. Following the discussion of the amendment(s) at a Group Conscious meeting, the amendment(s) shall be voted on by the Steering Committee., The plan of operation shall be reviewed every two years to ensure it remains relevant. Date of adoption of this plan of operations: Approved by Group Conscience and Steering Committee December 6th, 2017

Resources:
For more information on service positions and suggested group practices see: 
https://www.aa.org/assets/en_US/p-16_theaagroup.pdf : The AA Group Pamplet 
https://www.aa.org/assets/en_US/en_bm-31.pdf : AA Service Manual